Derin Gezgin
COM316: Artificial Intelligence | Fall 2024
Scheme #3
Due September 5 2024

I made all the changes in the grid-search.ss.

To make the robot mark the squares it visited, I uncommented line 20 and the draw-visited function did the rest for me.

On the other hand, to make the robot choose free squares over the visited ones, I had to create a helper function.
In the check-cells function there are 4 parameters: grid, x, y and target.
Grid is the current grid we're working on. X and Y are our current position and target is what we're looking for.
I added a target variable so the function can be used to look for different type of cells (goal, free, visited).

The check_cells function is fairly simple.
It checks all 4 directions one by one.
For each direction it first checks if the x/y values would be valid after the increment or decrement to ensure that we don't get outside the grid.
After this it checks if the cell on that direction is the target cell or not. (Technically the target cell and anything better than that)
This process is done for all 4 directions.
At the end, if the free_cells list is not null (there's at least 1 valid direction), a random element from the list is picked.
If there's no valid directions #f is returned.

To fit in this new function, I modified the move-robot function, as well.
The function first checks all 4 directions for the goal node.
After that -if nothing is found- it checks all 4 directions for a free node.
Finally -if nothing is found- it checks all 4 directions for a visited node.
If nothing is found in all these cases, it'll return "no moves"
After this process, it'll move the robot to the picked direction.

I ran more than 10 tests with this new configuration, by also changing the pause-num to see how it runs.
I can say that it significantly improved the results, as our robot prefers to go to the free cells rather than visited ones.
It's more likely to explore unknown regions on the grid.
It takes fewer moves for the robot to find the right solution, and it's a bit smarter than the previous version.
